This is one of my favourite insight stories.
In his last years of life before he had a stroke and couldn’t speak any more, Ajahn Chah was getting sick. We Western monks studied the Vinaya and discovered one thing that wasn’t well known in Thailand. In the time of the Buddha, there were saunas for monks. So we decided to build one for Ajahn Chah to help him keep healthy.
Another reason for building a sauna was that we had an excuse to invite Ajahn Chah to come over every week to Wat Pah Nanachat, where we stayed, to take his sauna and give us a talk.
Usually when he came over, I’d listen to his talk and then go and help him with his sauna. However, one particular week, he gave a brilliant talk. It went right inside of me, and I started blissing out while listening to the Dhamma. There were enough monks to look after Ajahn Chah, so I went round to the back of the hall, sat down on the concrete, and did a nice two-hour meditation. When I came out of that meditation, I was really happy, and the first thing I thought was: “Maybe, there’s still some time to help my teacher.” I started walking towards the sauna but realised I was too late because I saw him walking along the path towards the car to take him back to Wat Pah Pong.
Ajahn Chah walked towards me, looking me right in the eye as we approached one another, about to cross mid-path. I could feel Ajahn Chah reading my mind. It’s a hard thing to describe, and often I’d be embarrassed, but at that moment I’d just come out of a very deep meditation, and for once, I was happy he was reading my mind.
He looked at me firmly, and then really fiercely and sharply asked, “Brahmavaṁso! Why?” 
I paused. “I don’t know,” was all I could say.
Whenever we Western monks said something stupid like that, it’s amazing that these great monks would just laugh their head off. They thought it was so funny. People with all these big degrees from the West were so idiotic.
Then, Ajahn Chah screwed up his face and said, “I’ll tell you the answer.” He was obviously seeing that my hindrances were gone for a while, and he really wanted to see if he could enlighten one of his disciples.
“If anybody asks you the question ‘Why?’ The answer is: ‘There’s nothing.’” He paused, then asked, “Do you understand?”
“Yes,” I replied.
“No, you don’t,” he responded. Then he walked away.
It was a wonderful experience, even though I didn’t understand it at the time. Deep Dhamma takes a long time to penetrate.